NewJeans (Korean: 뉴진스), briefly known as NJZ (엔제이지), is a South Korean girl group formed by ADOR, a sub-label of Hybe. The group was initially composed of five members: Minji, Hanni, Danielle, Haerin, and Hyein. Mainly produced by Min Hee-jin, they are known for their girl next door image and musical stylings reminiscent of the 1990s and 2000s.

The group debuted under the name NewJeans on July 22, 2022, with the single "Attention", their first number-one song on South Korea's Circle Digital Chart. It was followed shortly afterwards by two other singles, "Hype Boy" and "Cookie", with "Hype Boy" becoming the longest-running song on the Billboard Global 200 by a K-pop female act. The singles were all featured on their eponymous debut extended play (EP), released in August 2022. In January 2023, they released their first single album, OMG, to commercial success. It was accompanied by two singles, "Ditto" and "OMG". "Ditto" gained widespread popularity, becoming the longest-running number-one song on the Circle Digital Chart and the group's first entry on both the Billboard Hot 100 and the UK Singles Chart.

Their second EP, Get Up, peaked at number one on the US Billboard 200 and sold over one million copies in South Korea. Its lead single, "Super Shy", became the group's highest-charting single on the Billboard Global 200 (number two), the US Billboard Hot 100, and the UK Singles Chart. NewJeans has received rookie awards and was featured in listicles such as Time Next Generation Leaders and Forbes Korea Power Celebrity 40. IFPI named NewJeans the eighth best-selling artist worldwide in 2023.

In 2024, a dispute over NewJeans' management arose as former ADOR CEO Min Hee-jin and the members clashed with Hybe and ADOR executives. The members sought to terminate their contract, which ADOR denied. In March 2025, the Seoul Central District Court granted an injunction filed by ADOR, blocking the group from carrying out independent activities. The group subsequently announced a hiatus later that month. The court ruled in favor of ADOR on October 30, which resulted in Hyein and Haerin agreeing to return to the label. On December 29, it was announced that Hanni had also agreed to return, while Danielle's contract was terminated. Discussion regarding Minji's contract is ongoing.
